.\" Copyright (c) 2010 AFP Authors
.\" This source code is released under the terms of the
.\" MIT license. Please see the file LICENSE for license details.

.TH AFP 1 "DECEMBER 2010" PSU "User Manuals"
.SH NAME 
afp \- audio filter pipeline
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B afp [-v] ([-f 
.I spec-file
.B ] | [
.I pipeline
.B ])
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B afp
constructs and runs an audio processing
pipeline composed of a series of filters.
The pipeline is specified using a 
bang ('!') separated list of filters.
The behavior of a given filter may be
modified by passing it arguments as
specified below.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP -v
Verbose output
.IP "-f spec-file"
Read the pipeline spec from 
.I spec-file
instead of command line
.SH BUILTIN FILTERS
.SS "alsasource"
Read data from a system mic.
.SS "alsasink"
Output directly to the system audio device.
.SS "delay -t <time>"
Mixes in an echo of the input, offset by 
.I time
milliseconds.
.SS "distort -t <type> -a <amp. multiplier> -c <clip point>"
Distorts the incoming signal.  Samples are multiplied by
.I a
and clipped at 
.I c
(where 0 <= c <= 1).  The type of clipping may be specified
with -t, available options are
.IR "hard, taper, " and linear.
The default is
.I hard 
.SS "execsource <command> [args]"
.SS "execlink <command> [args]"
.SS "execsink <command> [args]"
Executes command as a filter of the appropriate type
.SS "nullsource -s <time>"
Outputs 
.I time
seconds of silence.
.SS "nulllink"
Pipes data through without alteration
.SS "nullsink"
Discards all data recieved
.SS "pasink"
Output to system audio device using libportaudio
.SH FILES
	None.
.SH BUGS
	Plenty.
.SH AUTHORS
Aaron Devore <aaron.devore@gmail.com>
.br
John Harker <kjharke@cs.pdx.edu>
.br
Cory Kolbeck <ckolbeck@cs.pdx.edu>
.br
Eric O'Connell <eric@zerominuszero.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR afp-dev (8),
.BR afp-fmt (5)
